---
id: 01-04
title: "Unit 1 Chapter 4: Minimal Stage 2 Docker Image"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 4: Minimal Stage 2 Docker Image"
---

In this chapter, you will download the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image and learn more of the basic capabilities of Docker. This Minimal Stage 2 image is a derivative of the Minimal Stage 1 image used in the previous chapter and comes with basic software development tools added, such as Git, Heroku, Node Version Manager, Node.js, and Python.  This image is a building block for other images and can also be used for working on JavaScript apps.

## Topics Covered
* Time stamp file
* Removing and restoring Node.js in seconds
* Nuking all Docker images from your system

## Downloading the Image
* In your desktop Linux system, enter the following commands in a terminal:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
cd docker-debian-buster-use # Back to the docker-debian-buster-use repository from the previous chapter
```
* Enter the command "ls" to see the available scripts.
* Create the files for using a Docker container based on the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image.  Enter the command "sh min2.sh".
* Enter the command "cd min-stage2" to enter the directory for using the Minimal Stage 2 image.
* Enter the command "ls".  Note that this "min-stage2" directory contains scripts for using the Minimal Stage 2 image.  Again, these scripts come with important parameters already filled in for you.
* Enter the command "ls shared".  You can see the files within the shared directory.
* Download the Minimal Stage 2 image Docker image and start a Docker container based on it by entering the following command:
```
sh download_new_image.sh
```
* The Minimal Stage 2 image Docker image will be downloaded, and a corresponding Docker container will be created. When the new Docker container is ready, you will be automatically logged in.
* When you are in the Docker container, enter the command "exit" to return to your desktop Linux system.

## Information
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh".
* Enter the command "sh info.sh".  You'll see information on the software included in this Docker image.
* Enter the command "exit".

## Time Stamp
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh".
* Note that the time stamp file has two build dates instead of one.  That's because the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image is a derivative of the Minimal Stage 1 Docker image.  The first date is the time at which the Minimal Stage 1 Docker image was built, and the second date is the time at which the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image was built.

## Removing and Restoring Node.js
* Enter the command "node -v".  You'll see that Node.js is installed.
* Enter the command "rm -rf /home/winner/.nvm".  Yes, you are removing Node.js.  No, you should NOT try this on a host system.
* Enter the command "node -v".  You'll see that Node.js is no longer installed, because you deleted it.
* Enter the command "exit".
* Enter the command "sh resume.sh".
* Enter the command "node -v".  Node.js is still gone.
* Enter the command "exit".
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh".  
* Enter the command "node -v".  Your installation of node.js has been restored in just a few seconds.  If you had removed Node.js in this manner on your host system, you'd need several minutes to reinstall it.
* Enter the command "exit".

## Nuking All Docker Images
* From the desktop Linux system, enter the command "docker ps -a".  You'll see a list of Docker containers, including the containers from the minimal image that you used in the previous chapter.
* Enter the command "docker images -a".  You'll see a list of Docker images, including the minimal image from the previous chapter.
* Enter the command "sh nuke.sh".  This removes all Docker containers and images.
* Enter the command "docker ps -a".  You'll see no Docker containers.
* Enter the command "docker images -a".  You'll see no Docker images.
