---
id: 01-01
title: "Unit 1 Chapter 1: Prerequisites"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 1: Prerequisites"
---

## Requirements
* You MUST use a 64-bit host OS.  Ruby on Racetracks no longer supports the use of 32-bit systems. 
* This tutorial assumes that you are using a Linux distro based on Debian Linux.  (MX Linux or SparkyLinux 4 is recommended.)  If you are not using such a distro as your host OS, you should install a suitable OS in VirtualBox and install Docker there.  More details on how to do this are covered in the [VirtualBox Tutorial](https://www.virtualboxtutorial.com/).

## Using A Different Linux Distro
A virtual machine is strongly recommended (but not required) if you are using Linux distro that is not based on Debian Stable.  You can still install Docker and other software, but you must do so manually, because the automated script used in this tutorial relies on a Linux distro based on Debian Stable.

## What's wrong with using Docker for Mac?
Docker for Mac is slow.  Docker runs faster on a Linux virtual machine within VirtualBox.

## What's wrong with using Docker for Windows?
The Ruby on Racetracks way relies on Bash scripts to start up Docker containers.  Unfortunately, I was unable to get Bash scripts to work in Windows.  (The cygwin program didn't work.)

## Why don't you use Ubuntu?
* I tried the Unity interface, and it was unintuitive to me.
* The Ubuntu base has a high overhead, which means that it requires far more memory, processor speed, and other resources than SparkyLinux and other Debian-based distros that bypass the Ubuntu base. This high overhead is especially significant if your computer is more than a few years old, or if you're relying on a virtual machine.
