---
id: 02-01
title: "Unit 2 Chapter 1: React Container"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 1: React Container"
---

In this chapter, you will use the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image for the React Docker container.  Use this Docker container for working on apps based on JavaScript's React framework.

## Topics Covered
* Port assignments
* Viewing apps in the local browser

## Downloading the Image
* Entering the following commands in a terminal in your desktop Linux system:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
cd docker-debian-buster-use # Back to the directory for using Docker images
```
* Enter the command "ls" to see the available scripts.
* Enter the command "sh js-react.sh".
* You will be asked about your desired offset for the port numbers.  Enter "1".
* Enter the command "cd javascript-react".
* Enter the command "ls".  Note that this "javascript-react" directory contains scripts for using the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image.  Again, these scripts come with important parameters already filled in for you.
* Enter the command "ls shared".  You can see the files within the shared directory.  Note that there are Bash scripts provided for starting new React apps.
* Download the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image and start a React Docker container based on it by entering the following command:
```
sh download_new_image.sh
```
* The Minimal Stage 2 Docker image will be downloaded, and a dedicated Docker container for React will be created. When the new Docker container is ready, you will be automatically logged in.
* When you are in the Docker container, enter the command "exit" to return to your desktop Linux system.

## Information
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh" to enter the Docker container again.
* Enter the command "sh info.sh".
* Note the port forwarding information, which is stored in the ports.txt file in the shared directory.  You'll see that port 3000 in Docker corresponds to port 3001 in the Docker container's host system.

## Test App

#### Creating the Test App
* Enter the command "sh test-react.sh".  When prompted for the name of your app, enter "react1".
* Over the next few minutes, the script will automatically generate a React app for you and then host it on your local server.  Two URLs will be printed for you.

#### Viewing the Test App (Part 1)
When the above process is finished, open your web browser, and go to the URL specified that consists of all numbers.  You will see the basic React app you just created.

#### Viewing the Test App (Part 2)
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3000/ .  You will NOT see your React app.  That's because port 3000 in Docker corresponds to port 3001 in your desktop Linux system.  Before you started the Docker image, you specified 1 as the port offset, and this is how port 3000 in Docker was connected to port 3001 in your desktop Linux system.  The ports.txt file in the shared directory lists the port assignments.
* These port offsets allow you to use multiple Docker containers simultaneously.  If two or more Docker containers try to use the same port, the resulting conflicts lead to show-stopping errors.
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3001/ .  You'll see the basic React app you just created.

## Legacy App: Can I Vote If?

#### Back Story
The [Can I Vote If?](http://can-i-vote-if-beta.herokuapp.com/) app assists people with questions about whether or not they are able to vote in their state.  Just answer the questions, and press the "View Your Eligibility" button to see the result.

#### Downloading the App
* Enter the following commands:
```
git clone https://github.com/Can-I-Vote-If/can-i-vote-if.git
cd can-i-vote-if
yarn; yarn start
```
* Over the next few minutes, this React app will be installed for you and then hosted on your local server.  Two URLs will be printed for you.

#### Viewing the Legacy App (Part 1)
When it is finished, open your web browser, and go to the URL specified that consists of all numbers.  You will see the "Can I Vote If?" app.

#### Viewing the Legacy App (Part 2)
Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3001/ .  If necessary, refresh the browser.  You'll see the "Can I Vote If?" app.
