---
id: 02-02
title: "Unit 2 Chapter 2: Docusaurus Container"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 2: Docusaurus Container"
---

In this chapter, you will use the Minimal Stage 2 image for the dedicated Docusaurus Docker container.  Use this Docker container for working on apps based on JavaScript's Docusaurus framework (which is based on React).

## Topics Covered
* Viewing apps in the local browser

## Downloading the Image
* Entering the following commands in a terminal in your desktop Linux system:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
cd docker-debian-buster-use # Back to the directory for using Docker images
```
* Enter the command "ls" to see the available scripts.
* Enter the command "sh js-docusaurus.sh".
* You will be asked about your desired offset for the port numbers.  Enter "2".
* Enter the command "ls".  Note that this "javascript-docusaurus" directory contains scripts for using the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image.  Again, these scripts come with important parameters already filled in for you.
* Enter the command "ls shared".  You can see the files within the shared directory.
* Start a Docker container based on the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image by entering the following command:
```
sh reset.sh
```
* A Docker container based on the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image will be created. When the new Docker container is ready, you will be automatically logged in.
* When you are in the Docker container, enter the command "exit" to return to your desktop Linux system.

## Information
* Enter the command "sh info.sh".
* Note the port forwarding information, which is stored in the ports.txt file in the shared directory.  You'll see that port 3000 in Docker corresponds to port 3002 in the desktop Linux system, and port 35729 in Docker corresponds to port 35731 in the desktop Linux system.

## Test App

#### Creating The Test App
* Enter the command "sh test-docusaurus.sh".  When prompted for the name of your app, enter "docu1".
* Over the next few minutes, the script will automatically generate a Docusaurus app for you and then host it on your local server.  The port numbers of the LiveReload server and Docusaurus server will be printed for you.

#### Viewing the App (Docusaurus Server)
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3000/ .  You will NOT see your Docursaurus app.  That's because port 3000 in Docker corresponds to port 3002 in your desktop Linux system.  Before you downloaded the Minimal Stage 2 Docker image, you specified 2 as the port offset, and this is how port 3000 in Docker was connected to port 3002 in your desktop Linux system.  The ports.txt file in the shared directory lists the port assignments.
* These port offsets allow you to use multiple Docker containers simultaneously.  If two or more Docker containers try to use the same port, the resulting conflicts lead to show-stopping errors.
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3002/ .  You'll see the basic Docusaurus app you just created.

## Viewing the App (LiveReload Server)
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:35729/ .  You will get an error message, because port 35729 in Docker is connected to port 35731 in your desktop Linux system.
* Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:35731/ .  You'll see something similar to this:
```
{"tinylr":"Welcome","version":"1.1.1"}
```
* Seeing content (instead of an error message) in your browser's view of the LiveReload server confirms that the LiveReload feature is working.  The LiveReload feature automatically refreshes the page when you edit the content of *.md pages in the docs or website directories.

## Legacy App: Legacy Rails Apps

#### Back Story
My [Legacy Rails Apps](https://www.legacyrailsapps.com/) describes my procedure for applying the Ruby on Racetracks principles to existing Ruby on Rails apps.

#### Downloading the App
* Press Ctrl-c in the terminal to stop the server of the sample Docusaurus app that you just created.
* Enter the following commands:
```
git clone https://bitbucket.org/rubyonracetracks/rails-legacy-docu.git
cd rails-legacy-docu
sh all.sh; sh server.sh
```
* Over the next few minutes, this Docusaurus app will be installed for you and then hosted on your local server.  The port numbers of the LiveReload server and Docusaurus server will be printed for you.

#### Viewing the App (Docusaurus Server)
Open your web browser and go to the URL http://localhost:3002/ .  If necessary, refresh the browser.  You'll see the Legacy Rails app you just downloaded.
