---
id: 03-04
title: "Unit 3 Chapter 4: Rails Tutorial Sample App"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 4: Rails Tutorial Sample App"
---

In this chapter, you will download and run Michael Hartl's Rails Tutorial Sample App.In the interest of saving time, the rbenv-rails-general Docker image comes preinstalled with the latest version of Ruby and the versions of the rails, pg, and nokogiri gems specified in the Rails Tutorial Sample App.

## Topics Covered
Using the join.sh script to perform multiple tasks simultaneously

## Downloading the Source Code
* From the same rbenv-rails-general directory where you entered the rbenv-rails-general Docker container, enter the command "sh reset.sh" to return to Docker.
* Enter the following command:
```
git clone https://bitbucket.org/railstutorial/sample_app_4th_ed.git
```

## Setting Up and Viewing The App
* Enter the following commands:
```
cd sample_app_4th_ed
bundle install; rails db:migrate; rails test; rails s -b 0.0.0.0 -p 3000
```
* It will take a few minutes for the Sample App to be set up and tested.  All tests should pass.
* After the setup process has been completed, the Rails server will be activated.  In your web browser, go to http://localhost:3010/ to view the Sample App.

## Starting the Rails Sandbox
* In LXTerminal, open a new tab.  You should be within the rbenv-rails-general directory where you entered the rbenv-rails-general Docker container.
* Enter the command "ls".  One of the scripts you'll see is join.sh.
* Enter the command "sh join.sh".  This enters you into the same rbenv-rails-general Docker container where you are running the Sample App.  Note that the time stamp showing when you entered the Docker container earlier in this chapter is present.
* Enter the following commands:
```
cd sample_app_4th_ed
rails console --sandbox
```
* You are now in the Rails sandbox.
* Enter the command "Micropost.all".  You'll see some screen output but no actual microposts.
* Enter the command "User.all".  You'll see some screen output but no actual users.

## Seeding the Database
* In LXTerminal, open a new tab.  In this new tab, enter the command "sh join.sh".  This is a third terminal for interacting with the Sample App.  Remember that the first terminal is dedicated to the Rails server, and the second terminal is dedicated to the Rails sandbox.
* Enter the following commands:
```
cd sample_app_4th_ed
rails db:migrate:reset; rails db:seed
```
* It will take a few minutes for the Sample App to finish seeding the database with fake data.

## Viewing Data in Rails Sandbox
* In order to update what Rails sandbox shows, you must exit it and then restart it.  Enter the command "exit", and then enter the command "rails console --sandbox".
* Enter the command "Micropost.all".  You will now see a list of all microposts.
* Enter the command "User.all".  You will now see a list of all users.

## Starting the Guard Server
* NOTE: I don't agree with the use of the automated test tool Guard, but it's a good example of simultaneous actions.
* In LXTerminal, go to the third tab, the one where you seeded the database.
* Enter the command "bundle exec guard" to start the Guard server.
* Once Guard has started up, press the Enter key again to run the tests, which should all pass.
* In your desktop Linux system, edit the app/models/micropost.rb file in the sample app project.  Change the maximum length of the content from 140 to 1.
* Check the Guard tab (third tab) in LXTerminal.  You'll see that the micropost model test now fails.
* In LXTerminal, start a fourth tab, and enter the command "join.sh".
* Enter the command "cd sample_app_4th_ed; git status".  Note that the app/models/micropost.rb has now changed.
* Enter the command "git checkout app/models/micropost.rb".  This removes the change you just made.
* Return to the third tab of LXTerminal, the Guard tab.  You'll see that the micropost model test now passes again.

## Exiting
* Go to the fourth LXTerminal tab used to access the Sample App.  Enter the command "exit".  You have exited the rbenv-rails-general Docker container in that Terminal tab, but you are still connected in the remaining tabs.
* In the third tab, press Ctrl-C to stop the Guard server.  Then enter the command "exit" to leave the Docker container.
* In the second tab, enter the command "exit" to exit the Rails sandbox.  Then enter "exit" again to leave the Docker container.
* In the first tab, press Ctrl-C to stop the Rails server.  Then enter the command "exit" to leave the Docker container.

## Conclusions
* Congratulations!  You now understand how to use Docker under the Ruby on Racetracks way.
* For every Rails project that I'm on, I provide a custom Docker image that includes the correct versions of Ruby, the Rails gem, and certain other gems.  This makes the setup process much faster and shorter.
* Note that you use a different Docker offset for each Docker container used in this tutorial.  Using a different offset value for different Docker containers allows you to run multiple Docker containers simultaneously.  If a Docker container you are running uses any ports, trying to start a second Docker container that uses the same ports will lead to error messages due to the conflict.
