---
id: 03-02
title: "Unit 3 Chapter 2: Rails App With SQLite"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 2: Rails App With SQLite"
---

In this chapter, you will create a Rails app that uses SQLite as the database.

## Topics Covered
* Creating a new Rails app that uses SQLite for the database
* Viewing the Rails app in your web browser
* Viewing your Rails app's database with the SQLite Browser

## Creating and Viewing the App
* From the same rvm-rails-general directory you used to enter Docker in the previous chapter, enter the command "sh reset.sh" to return to Docker.
* Enter the following command:
```
sh test-rails-sq.sh
```
* The process of creating the new app will take a few minutes.  (This script follows the procedure from http://elinux.org/RPi_Ruby_on_Rails for creating a new Rails app.)  When it is finished, open your web browser, and go to the URL http://localhost:3010/pupils .  You should now see a form called "Pupils".

## Adding Pupils
* Click on "New Pupil".  For the name, enter "Rod Serling".  For the form, enter "The Twilight Zone".  Click on "Create Pupil".  Click on "Back".
* Click on "New Pupil".  For the name, enter "George Romero".  For the form, enter "Tales from the Darkside".  Click on "Create Pupil".  Click on "Back".
* You should now see both of these pupils listed on the web page.

## Using SQLite Browser
* In your desktop Linux system, open SQLiteBrowser (which is automatically installed during the official Docker installation process).  Go to File -> Open Database, and open the db/development.sqlite3 file within your app.  (The directory tree is rubyonracetracks -> docker-debian-buster-use -> rvm-rails-general -> shared -> school_sq .)
* Go to the "Browse Data" tab.
* Change the "Table" setting to display "pupils".
* You should now see the entries for Rod Serling and George Romero.

## Exiting
* Exit SQLite Browser.
* In Docker, press Ctrl-C to stop the local server so that you can continue entering commands.
* Enter the command "exit".
* In the next chapter, you will create a basic Ruby on Rails app that uses PostgreSQL instead of SQLite as the database.
