---
id: 03-01
title: "Unit 3 Chapter 1: Rails Image"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 1: Rails Image"
---

## Topics Covered
* Reinstalling Ruby on Rails in SECONDS

## Downloading the Image
* Entering the following commands in a terminal in your desktop Linux system:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
cd docker-debian-buster-use # Back to the directory for using Docker images
```
* Enter the command "ls" to see the available scripts.
* Enter the following command to create the files for using a Docker container based on the rbenv-rails-general Docker image:
```
sh rbenv-rails-general.sh
```
* Enter the following command to enter the directory for using the rbenv-rails-general image:
```
cd rbenv-rails-general
```
* You will be asked about your desired offset for the port numbers.  Enter "10".
* Enter the command "ls".  Note that this "rbenv-rails-general" directory contains scripts for using the rbenv-rails-general Docker image.  Again, these scripts come with important parameters already filled in for you.
* Enter the command "ls shared".  You can see the files within the shared directory.
* Download the rbenv-rails-general Docker image and start a Docker container based on it by entering the following command:
```
sh download_new_image.sh
```
* The rbenv-rails-general Docker image will be downloaded, and a corresponding Docker container will be created. When the new Docker container is ready, you will be automatically logged in.
* When you are in the Docker container, enter the command "exit" to return to your desktop Linux system.

## Time Stamp
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh".
* Note that the time stamp file has four build dates.  That's because the rbenv-rails-general Docker image is a derivative of the min-rbenv image, which is a derivative of the min-stage2 image.  The min-stage2 image is a derivative of the min-stage1 image.

## Information
* Enter the command "sh info.sh".  You'll see that least one version of Ruby was installed with rbenv, and at least one version of Rails was installed as well.
* Note the port forwarding information, which is stored in the ports.txt file in the shared directory.  You'll see that port 3000 in Docker corresponds to port 3010 in the desktop Linux system.  Additionally, port 5432 in Docker correspeonds to port 15442 in the desktop Linux system.

## Removing and Restoring Ruby on Rails
* Enter the command "rbenv versions".  You'll see the system version of Ruby and one additional numbered version pre-installed with rbenv (the Ruby version manager).
* Enter the command "ruby -v".  This shows you the version of Ruby currently in use.
* Enter the command "rails -v".  This shows you the version of Rails currently in use.
* Enter the command "rm -rf /home/winner/.rbenv".  This removes rbenv, all versions of Ruby installed with rbenv, and Rails (which was installed within Ruby).
* Enter the command "rbenv versions".  You'll get the error message "command not found".
* Enter the command "ruby -v".  You'll see an old version of Ruby in use.  This is the Ruby version that was automatically installed during the process of creating the development Docker image.
* Enter the command "rails -v".  You'll get the error message "No such file or directory".
* Enter the command "exit".
* Enter the command "sh resume.sh".
* Enter the command "rbenv versions".  Again, you'll get the error message "command not found".
* Enter the command "ruby -v".  Again, you'll see an old version of Ruby in use.
* Enter the command "rails -v".  You'll get the error message "command not found".
* Enter the command "exit".
* Enter the command "sh reset.sh".
* Enter the command "rbenv versions".  Now you'll see the original (newer) version of Ruby for this Docker container.
* Enter the command "ruby -v".  Now you'll see the original (newer) version of Ruby for this Docker container.
* Enter the command "rails -v".  Now you'll see that Rails is back.
* Enter the command "exit".
* If you had deleted Ruby on Rails from a host system, it would take you hours to fully reinstall it.  In the next chapter, you will create a very basic Ruby on Rails app.
