---
id: 04-04
title: "Unit 4 Chapter 4: Minimal Rbenv Docker Image"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 4: Minimal Rbenv Docker Image"
---

In this chapter, you will learn how the Minimal Rbenv Docker image is built.

## Topics Covered
* Repository
* variables.sh Script
* Dockerfile
* usr_local_bin Directory
* Building the Docker Image Locally

## Repository
Go to https://gitlab.com/rubyonracetracks/docker-debian-buster-min-rbenv.  This is the repository used for building the Minimal Rbenv Docker image.

## variables.sh Script
The ABBREV variable is "min-rbenv".

## Dockerfile
The Docker image built from the processes in the previous chapter is used as the basis for building this chapter's new Docker image.

## usr_local_bin Directory
* The min-rbenv-root script executes the root actions needed to build the new Docker image.  These consist of installing the prerequisites of rbenv.
* The min-rbenv-root script also calls the min-rbenv-user script and the /usr/local/bin/check script.
* The min-rbenv-user script installs rbenv.
* The min-rbenv-check script (which is called by the /usr/local/bin/check script) displays the versions of Ruby installed.  The Docker image produced here provides only the system version of Ruby.  Downstream Docker images include other versions of Ruby.

## Building the Docker Image Locally
* Enter the following commands:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
git clone https://gitlab.com/rubyonracetracks/docker-debian-buster-min-rbenv.git
cd docker-debian-buster-min-rbenv
bash build.sh
```
* The screen output is automatically logged.  The log files are in the log directory.
* In a moment, the build process will be finished.
