---
id: 04-05
title: "Unit 4 Chapter 5: Rbenv Rails General Docker Image"
sidebar_label: "Chapter 5: Rbenv Rails General Docker Image"
---

In this chapter, you will learn how the Rbenv Rails General Docker image is built.

## Topics Covered
* Repository
* variables.sh Script
* Dockerfile
* usr_local_bin Directory
* Building the Docker Image Locally

## Repository
Go to https://gitlab.com/rubyonracetracks/docker-debian-buster-rbenv-rails-general.  This is the repository used for building the Minimal Rbenv Docker image.

## variables.sh Script
The ABBREV variable is "rbenv-rails-general".

## Dockerfile
The Docker image built from the processes in the previous chapter is used as the basis for building this chapter's new Docker image.

## usr_local_bin Directory
* The rbenv-rails-general-root script executes the root actions needed to build the new Docker image.  For this image, no actions are needed other than the most routine ones.  (There are no apt-get packages to install here.)
* The rbenv-rails-general-root script calls the rbenv-rails-general-user script and the /usr/local/bin/check script.
* The rbenv-rails-general-user script installs selected versions of Ruby.  In each version of Ruby installed here, selected gems are also installed.  These gems are those that take a long time to install, such as rails, pg, nokogiri, ffi, and mailcatcher.  This Docker image is intended for starting new Rails apps or installing the Rails Tutorial Sample App.
* The rbenv-rails-general-check script (which is called by the /usr/local/bin/check script) displays the versions of Ruby installed and the versions of selected gems that are installed.

## Building the Docker Image Locally
* Enter the following commands:
```
cd
cd rubyonracetracks
git clone https://gitlab.com/rubyonracetracks/docker-debian-buster-rbenv-rails-general.git
cd docker-debian-buster-rbenv-rails-general
bash build.sh
```
* The screen output is automatically logged.  The log files are in the log directory.
* It will take some time for the build process to finish.
